So welcome to
part 2 of the solution of this fun challenge. By the end of this video
we will have joy, because the tank will actually be auto-aiming
with ballistic corrections and stuffs towards the
enemy. And you can even see one of the AI tanks there, just starting to move its barrel
around. So, there's more to do on this, but it's a great starting point and let's get it done!
So guys and girls, let's get the rest of this show on the
road shall we! Let's pop into the code and see what else needs to happen.
I think we should go as far as the TankTurret,
and taking inspiration from the TankBarrel, what do we need to do?
Well, we're going to need something like an Elevate method, but it's,
of course, going to be rotate, so why don't we just pop that in. We're going to
do the standard thing of doing a Find and Replace of Barrel
for Turret, in the selection.
And it's just that, it's
UTankTurret::Elevate. Now, it's not Elevate anymore, it's
Rotate at a given speed. I'm going to get rid of the comment for this one
I think. We just don't need it here. Relative speed should be clamped. Yes it should,
absolutely, because it needs to be between -1 and +1. OK,
so we want to get rid of anything to do with Elevation. So, it's Rotation
Change is RelativeSpeed times that. That's good!
RawNewRotation, in fact, I can do a Find and Replace on the
word Elevation, couldn't I! So, let's have a look for
Elevation, there's loads of those, and change it to Rotation.
Boom! Now, let's make sure it reads right! NewRotation is the Relative
Rotation.Pitch? Mmm That's not really true!
It's the RelativeRotation.Yaw now,
pluse the RotationChange. That sounds good! Now,
before I even carry on, I'm just going to put a comment here, just to mark where I am.
I don't like the fact that I can't see what's happening, because I've got all of these
IntelliSense errors, and they are because I haven't declared this over in
the TankTurret.h, so let me just go do that right now.
TankTurret.h, we're going to need
to declare that. Now, in the TankBarrel.h
what did we do? Did we put it in the private or the public? Because we should do the same
thing right? It needs to be public, so let's just take that bit,
and in the TankTurret.h, just pop in public.
It's the same comment about the maximum and the minimum. That's going to be a useful thing, if people
are using the method, and it's UTankTurret,
that's right, Rotate at a relative speed. Good!
So that should stop the IntelliSense complaining and
it does! Fantastic! So, let's keep reading! That's where I got to, that's where I put a marker.
So, the Rotation, we don't need to clamp the Rotation, so we're not going to bother
clamping the Rotation. In which case, we don't need to call it
RawNewRotation, we could just call it NewRotation or simply
Rotation. The only difference now is that the Rotation doesn't get
set as the Pitch value inside here, it gets set as the Yaw
value. So, we just, Mmm, what's the easiest way? Maybe just put a 0 in front.
So, we get the RotationChange, pass it into the
FRotator, and that should be good! Now, MaxDegreesPerSecond is complaining. Of
course it is, because if we look in the TankBarrel.h, we had ourselves
a nice Blueprint exposed MaxDegreesPerSecond of 5
on the Barrel. So, we're going to want a very similar thing on the Turret,
in the private section, because we don't want another method to be able to call this, another class
rather to be able to call this method. And there it is, so that's setup
a sensible default! Let's compile away and make sure this all works!
And indeed, that on the Tank
Turret, we have what we have on the TankBarrel. The Barrel has this Setup
with these three parameters. We should have a Setup section the Turret, in a moment,
with just one parameter for the maximum speed. Now, something's gone wrong,
I've missed a simple semicolon. Always doable, there you go!
You see how I use the compile time to do something else useful,
to take me somewhere else, prepare for something I'm going to do next, and that way
if the compile succeeds, I'm already where I want to be. There you go,
that's worked! And now the barrel, if I go to it, the Turret rather, , it has this
Max Degrees Per Second. We'll leave that at 5, that's all good. I'm going to ignore that,
that's an old Compile Failed log. Let's play the game, make sure it works. It
does, so the Barrel elevates, but of course, it doesn't rotate yet. So, why not?
Well, I think the simplest way to follow this through is, let's follow it through from the start
right. The TankPlayerController is the very beginning of all of this.
Does this have anything that talks about barrels, etc.?
No, so what do we do in the C++? Well, we
aim at every frame. And what we should
really be doing here is popping back to our stack, that I showed
you a few videos ago and saying, OK what happens? So, the
Player or AI Controller doesn't AimAt a HitLocation on the Tank, and
then, the Tank tells the Aiming Component to aim and then we call
the Barrel and, of course, there would be a corresponding call down to the Turret. So, we need to
start in the AimingComponent, that's where in the stack we want to be starting.
That's why it's useful to draw yourself a diagram sometimes. So, here's the
AimingComponent, and down at the bottom here, we have the concept of Barrel->Elevate.
Well, how about we have Turret! Now, do we even have a Turret on here? Well, I think we
put it in but let's check. Yep we do, great! So, we can say
Turret. Oops!
->Rotate go Turret! And it's going to be
the (DeltaRotator) that we calculated above,
.Yaw); See if this
works! I don't expect it to work perfectly, but I'm hoping that we will be pretty close.
So, let's just check that that Turret actually has an implementation of that
Yaw. It does and that's all good, so let's try it!
Let's have a go and see how we do!
So a pause while it
compiles! Oh
look! OK, I'm too excited about that, but thats really cool!
I think that ElevationSpeed is probably reasonable, but I don't think
that the Rotation is reasonable. So, what I'm going to do
is I'm going to go find a reasonable value here in the blueprint, so
I'm going to binary search for it. So, we've got 5 degrees, right? Well,
how about we go 45 degrees per second,
45 degrees per second remember. Compile that because it's quicker than compiling C++.
I would say that's crazy fast, so
let's chop in the middle. 5 + 45 is 50, divided by 2 is 25.
So, 25 is in the middle of the two. Let's try that figure!
Oh, still fast but you know
what it probably is OK. I don't really know how fast a tank moves, but that's probably
OK. I think that the Barrel maybe is quite a lot slower to go up and down, then it is
to go around and around. Yeah, I think that's OK! I think to bring it in
line, I'm going to tweak the speed of elevation on the Barrel,
to 10 degrees per second,
and then, try that!
Yeah, that's fine I think! I mean we can
play with this till the cows come home, but that's my new set of sensible defaults,
10 on the Barrel Degrees Per Second, 25 on the Turret. I'm going to
push those back to the C++, and then, I'm going to explain what that means.
10 here, Tank
Barrel.h.
Sorry that's 10, and the Turret.h
should be 25! OK, what I mean by this, by pushing
the values back to the C++ is, that if a designer comes along and puts another
tank into the scene, like Mmm so,
the question is what values does this guy now have? If we were to inspect
that Tank and then to look at his Turret and then say, well what's the
Degrees Per Second, it's going to come with a C++ default. That's the reason
that I am setting it in the C++. It is overridable on a tank by tank
basis, but I'm setting it over there O.K.. So, that's
what I'm doing. Where was that tank I just put in? Oh right there, let's get rid of it, because it'll be
confused with the player tank. Look we have success! We're aiming at that tank,
aiming at the hill, we're aiming high up the hill,
we're aiming potentially at the other tank. I think that we've got a pretty high
projectile speed. I think this would be more convincing if we were to go to
the Tank aiming, the tank itself rather, and then, go
to the LaunchSpeed and set it at say  Mmm maybe even 1,000. That's far
too slow, 1,000 centimeters per second, a 100 meters a second, about 250
miles an hour is too slow for a projectile. But let's just take a little
look and see how much more obvious it makes the
movement. You see what it's doing here, is it's saying well I can only get the projectile about that far away in the world,
and if I try and go any further it's going to ignore me, so that is
clearly far too little. We want to be able to fire out to about the periphery of
the world, so we need to binary search the projectile speed. Let's try
4,000. By binary search I mean, try a value, try another
value split it in half. So, one way to do it is just to go diagonally until it stops
bothering to update. That's OK! Actually, that's about
right, that 4,000! Yeah, it stops bothering
about on the boundary. So we can, from the middle of the play space, about get to the edge of it, which is
pretty cool because we don't want to be able to hit anywhere from anywhere, there wouldn't be any
point in moving then. So, we want to have to move towards the other tank, navigate some obstacles,
and then shoot. So, that is open to further tweaking later, but
4,000... Oops! There's a default launch speed, if I can leave it alone.
Here's a good starting point. I'll pop that into the Tank header file.
As a new default, rather than 10,000.
We had a TODO to find a sensible default, that's done!
While we're here, let's go to all of our TODO's. In Xcode you can just, rather than
going View Task List, you can just look for TODO's. We're still
asking the question whether or not the TankAimingComponent needs to Tick.
It probably doesn't, we don't have a Tick method in here. What I'm going to do is I'm going to say
false, and just test that the aiming works.
Let's test that the aiming works, before we remove the TODO. It's quite important how you handle
these minor things. If you delete the TODO first, then you may lose where you are; at least
we've got the TODO in here as a safety net.
Now, does it still work? Ah, it's not compiled. Come on
compiler, you can do it! So, without the TankAimingComponent Ticking, what happens?
It still works! And that's fine and that's because
this method is being constantly called from the PlayerController,
so there's no reason for the AimingComponent to Tick. So we can remove that
TODO, and then, we're nearly there. Let's just look at the other part
of the Task List: "report bug". Oh I did that! I did that yesterday! That was
reporting to the Unreal answers
place about this but. Now, there's a link to that on the previous
lecture, actually, on the lecture where I talked about
how to report bugs. So, that's all done, everything's cool! I'm going to save that!
I'm going to Save All on Unreal, making sure they get rid of all these stars,
and then, commit my work and we are done! Well done guys, let's move on to
something more exciting in the next video!